# Agricultural-Insights
Agriculture has been the backbone of civilization by providing food and other necessary resources. Modern agriculture techniques face threats and challenges which predominantly effects its sustainability. The weather pattern, combined with the increase in soil degradation have made farming unpredictable and heavily risk prone. 

The ability to handle these issues is to enhance the use of modern technology such as real time data collection, cloud platform and analytics. The primary objective of this report is to build an agricultural insights platform solution that is helpful and easy to understand for farmers. This scalable, cloud solution is designed to automate the collection of data, processing and providing analysis over critical patterns and soil conditions. The agricultural platform will help farmers manage resources, predict crop yield and make informed decisions on the style of farming to reduce risk of loss. 

The ideology of the project aligns with the global efforts from around the world to improve agricultural sustainability, especially in emerging world with smart cities. Research from Food and Agricultural organization shows that real time monitoring can help farmers improve their crop yields by nearly 20% and crop resources by 15%. Moreover, this cloud based solution offers high cost-efficiency and allows small scale farmers to take advantage of advanced technologies. 

The development of the platform initiated with scalability and accessibility in mind. Using Google's cloud platform (GCP), this agricultural insights projects aims to ensure continuous data acquisition, real time updates and capacity to handle large data from databases. An automated pipeline and cloud storage (from google firebase), removes the need of manual intervention, allowing streamlined flow from start to finish. The intuitions and analysis from the data is visualized in dashboards, enabling farmers to easily understand the correlations between the weather and soil data. The platform acts as a transformative tool in the landscape of modern agriculture to address both the present and future challenges faced by farmers. 
